The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Author: Herman Melville
By Herman Melville
and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our
great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit."
State--(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man." --OPENING
"In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness." --RICHARD
so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent
disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so
     "Where away?" demanded the captain.
manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied
reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of
PAID,--what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves
so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.
partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round
man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the
withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
the half of any decent man's blanket.
manner.
as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods
seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and burnt,
of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away
No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
"With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?"
towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion,
degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying
do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of
up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag,
a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been
thought I, after all! It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any
tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man
game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner. But
a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire,
most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol
carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"
myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason
turn in with him. But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways were well
heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his
to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His
street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view
good thing; the more's the pity. So, if any one man, in his own
that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him,
be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard,
of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances--this kind of
man maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked
embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the
jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But
savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh. It
But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses
which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright terraces
In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman's Chapel, and few are
but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable
sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it
youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and
manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for
ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards,
man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a self-containing stronghold--a lofty
commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God--never
mind now what that command was, or how conveyed--which he found a hard
command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
do--remember that--and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure
not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends
question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.
though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
him. 'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with
Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as
man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto
with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these
mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man
He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from
so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself
out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this
my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the
will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish that
We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
of being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright
tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the
the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to
an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to accompany
assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate
with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers
which to manage the barrow--Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
touched at Rokovoko, and its commander--from all accounts, a very
stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this
commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a
companionable; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a
"He say," said I, "that you came near kill-e that man there," pointing
all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull,
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very
I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
"Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye!"
But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his
"every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon--but why not?" "Because
I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great
the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries,
You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded
another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the
from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who
faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a
command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all
the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,
his continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to
he demanded.
But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks
of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one
"Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured,
"Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou
"Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a
Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things
unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain
of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath
advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language--that man makes
still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from another
Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island
to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns
he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man's
curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was
"He says he's our man, Bildad," said Peleg, "he wants to ship."
whole management of the ship's affairs to these two. And I did not know
shall we give this young man?"
shall not LAY up many LAYS here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
swindle this young man! he must have more than that."
many of them--and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those
an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy conscience be
"Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
insult me. It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
the grindstone. That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man,
many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all
to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
isn't well either. Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I
don't suppose he will thee. He's a queer man, Captain Ahab--so some
fear. He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak
I know what he is--a good man--not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but
a swearing good man--something like me--only there's a good deal more of
off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's
old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless
humanities!"
creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of footmanism
Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
"What's the matter with you, young man?"
In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the
man, avast there!"
a man's religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.
be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?" and so saying, taking
long, I rather guess, young man."
"Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou art skylarking with me--explain
man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand;
sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn
as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,--good luck to 'em; and they are
of his manner.
you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?"
there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity--Aunt Charity, as
without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to." And so
quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable
commanding, and not Bildad.
"Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!--jump!"--was the next command, and
copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would
yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads
sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to
the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years' dangerous
are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And
battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies'
of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran
over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen
catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the
to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born
discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores
merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their
triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world's capital,
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
whales. I account that man more honourable than that great captain of
antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.
hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather
smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil,
unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy
the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the
through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
vicissitudes of the fishery. "I will have no man in my boat," said
fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
a man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery." But we shall ere long
see what that word "careful" precisely means when used by a man like
it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such
mighty man.
men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves,
a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a rainbow
mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou great
according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;
chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a
was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the
And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the
most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
manner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,
him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to
Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the
peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers
world's grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever
only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin
but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was
Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when
negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man,
immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with
other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.
absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man,
man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man
Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these,
scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, "I
aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever
the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets
it? A hot old man! I guess he's got what some folks ashore call
that's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and
on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong
"Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man's
back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And then,
member--that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to
badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
shoulders, and slews me round. 'What are you 'bout?' says he. Slid! man,
clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern
kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It's an
old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; BE kicked by him;
"May be; may be. But it's made a wise man of me, Flask. D'ye see Ahab
you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him,
something queer about that, eh? A white whale--did ye mark that, man?
harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate
laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy,
French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged
by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and
gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters. Very
pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it
BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).--This gentleman is famous for
and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but
girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like figure. He has
half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I omit
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in
and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand political
maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from
Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and
and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon
which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through
dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what it will,
defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
private dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power
and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned
their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved
the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly
him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! was a butterless man!
is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of
with all things they demanded, he would escape from their clutches into
a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing,
In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost
even--then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals
who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh
are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their
the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There
conveniences of his crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many
Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so many broken-down
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every
countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began
"And he have one, two, three--oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many barrels
a little lower layer. If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
"Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer. All visible objects, man,
the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that,
herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my master, man,
and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the
nearest seaman. "The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, you
it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful
it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but
revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is
My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a madman!
knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who's over him, he cries;--aye, he would
Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human
soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
     Our captain's commanded.--
TASHTEGO. (QUIETLY SMOKING) That's a white man; he calls that fun:
ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove! We are the
but the crew's cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort
side of mankind--devilish dark at that. No offence.
DAGGOO (SPRINGING). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!
tambourine--that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him! Oh,
circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest along
upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many
such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth.
in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints,
that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor
as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been
to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real
him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at
voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems
tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
then, Ahab, in his hidden self, raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a
when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the
Highland gorge. But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of
way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;
where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root
change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the
Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses a
to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded
to the old man's ire--by what evil magic their souls were possessed,
could not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there
Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, as
pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white
man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and though, besides, all
the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal
sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many
of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes,
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth
learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no
At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern
it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was
mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror.
What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a
thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And
Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the
to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
things the most appalling to mankind.
scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets
the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.
sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe that,
that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive
Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander
of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved
itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature
items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these
think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted
This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many
poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many
candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's blood was
Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His
part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall),
commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
Now, the Captain D'Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in
In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, too,
general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work
human reasoning, Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove
the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm
habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways, altogether to
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual
manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.
The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
and romantic object--that final and romantic object, too many would have
obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on
Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready
boats obeyed not the command.
calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such
indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly
commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew.
all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the
tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in
"Every man look out along his oars!" cried Starbuck. "Thou, Queequeg,
commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout
whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand,
fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been
peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.
heat of his first battle; not the dead man's ghost encountering the
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures
and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the
we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical
of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; it comes
"Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck,
squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?"
oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's
clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived
with my timber toe. Oh! he's a wonderful old man!"
"I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel."
that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;
maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the
apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of
a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants,
though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred
Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head
manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange,
of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly
with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck,
manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed
the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man
silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore
By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock. Never
could Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down
Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.
helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But
turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the
before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they
Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that
chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many
skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?" And that
gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has
that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that
Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when
the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and
his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
two, in a sudden squall say--to seize hold of the nearest oarsman's
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days' sail eastward
provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.
"'Lakeman!--Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?'
Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
Superior, and Michigan,--possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many
of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles,
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many
vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh
Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this Lakeman, a
firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human recognition
gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded
world of ours--watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings
rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
"Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know
commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a
the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly
in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his
command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an
hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to
now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on
the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
"'Canallers!' cried Don Pedro. 'We have seen many whale-ships in our
and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of
our wild whale-fishery contains so many of its most finished graduates,
and that scarce any race of mankind, except Sydney men, are so much
curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our rural boys and
"I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly
sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the
with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.
"'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their
"'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt. 'Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
"The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
"'Look ye, now,' cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
"As the Lakeman's bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain
demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to
And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck,
man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants
allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been
he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present,
reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.
"'Best not,' hissed the Lakeman.
"But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man,
"'You are a coward!' hissed the Lakeman.
"But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who
mate's watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than
"During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
"'Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length
Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to
the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man,
moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the
the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were
the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his
loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding foam that
"Meantime, at the first tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with
the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so
"'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt;
"'A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman. 'Adios, Senor!' and leaping
eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored
confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the
only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific
avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came
Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so
stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both
at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner
experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.
But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading personal characteristics;
the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four
all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human
incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the
tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale,
they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that
that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with
Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.
quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design,
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish
wondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated
though but a moment's consideration will teach, that however baby man
continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the
dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more,
surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular
more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the
his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.
water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti
Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs against his wrist
eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest
woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
hung in hangman's nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before
chronicled--of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the
the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings
that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.
dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.
orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in
old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
"Wet the line! wet the line!" cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated
running line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or
into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging
"Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning
the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
"Pull up--pull up!" he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale
off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost
indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the
fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many
that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper
and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to
to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss
up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from
it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on
adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side
to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest.
bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all
every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something
along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on
'em gentlemanly."
"Passed one once in Cape-Down," said the old man sullenly.
"When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole
he ain't more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself," muttered the old man,
That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,
Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large
butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea,
and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever
and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest
civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is
present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman
is about the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape,
no single man can possibly lift--this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up
follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to
the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood,
is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed
virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after
great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting
survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or
in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many
feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so
demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor's side,
man.--Where away?"
"Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned mast-heads
commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at
Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular
make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled
told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby
him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship,
was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore
command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.
his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But
"I fear not thy epidemic, man," said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
"Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
persuading five men to man his boat. With them he pushed off; and, after
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman's head; but the
Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated;
headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
discernible; the man being stark dead.
one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after
"Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab. "Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it's but
Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,--the man's wife, I'll wager)--Aye--Mr.
that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar
and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag
would, I only had the management of one end of it.*
upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb,
miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could
which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"
"I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard," said
"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
"Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
"Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn't the devil live
hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
front of a man--what, indeed, but his eyes?
the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of
hint. So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing
order to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
can, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able
alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded);
in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with
him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a very
third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:
other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a
thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable by any man who has not
the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though
the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to
"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a cartridge
How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and
or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
elephant's brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as
that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees.
nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine
forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of genius.
no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's
face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in
resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from
to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
man had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,
skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely
the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide
wavingly held by the German. "Impossible!--a lamp-feeder!"
coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
right, is the Yarman."
heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness.
Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck
German will have him."
German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's
Yarman--Pull--won't ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do
ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come,
budding. This won't do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of
lose him now--don't oh, DON'T!--see that Yarman--Oh, won't ye pull for
of England!--Oh, DO, DO, DO!--What's that Yarman about now?"
"The unmannerly Dutch dogger!" cried Stubb. "Pull now, men, like fifty
Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's
the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry
the Yarman! Sail over him!"
of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to free
mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.
appal the stoutest man who so pitied.
darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket
the German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled
least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated
what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and
oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby
But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an
few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when
body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was
Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
great honourableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many
The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this
in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans
the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a
the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we
that strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere
whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I
rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times,
One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist
his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau
countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced,
none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small
Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and
That for six thousand years--and no one knows how many millions of ages
many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the
Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be
In man, breathing is incessantly going on--one breath only serving
heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman
charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the
man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. When Angelo paints even God
the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever
a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an
Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a
Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like
Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of
of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.
inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their
as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the
thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a
solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded
Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's bottom as the seat slid from
exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will calmly
"What ails ye, man?" cried Starbuck.
and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well with strawberries.
attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the
and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and
Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life,
upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first
thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of
famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of
she keeps so many moody secrets.
many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife's
then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that
subsequent gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have
A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might
I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion
jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.
steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with
or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy
deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business. Is
this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many
Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn
I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It's worth trying. Yes,
and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship.
"Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
Stubb returned to the Frenchman.
He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
"What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman,
it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But
noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man
of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter's office, was
small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now politely
introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the
"He says, Monsieur," said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
"What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no more fit to command a
Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
"What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to
with the man I've diddled. In fact, tell him I must go."
the Guernsey-man to this effect,--that having a long tow-line in his
whale of the two from the ship's side. While the Frenchman's boats,
hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the
against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and
impatient Ahab's loud command to Stubb to desist, and come on board,
more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the
the Frenchman's two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous
it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas,
It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and at
It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,
all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, "Stick to the boat,
though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which
under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time
oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested
and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So man's
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man
when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all cases
man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of attainable
But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman's nipper is
go in pairs,--a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is
something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet
spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless;
man in each pot, side by side--many confidential communications
material counterpart of her monomaniac commander's soul.
Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow
in him, that mortal man cannot be true--not true, or undeveloped. With
passing wise, and therefore jolly;--not that man is fitted to sit
But even Solomon, he says, "the man that wandereth out of the way
darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he
See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of
rehearsing--singing, if I may--the romantic proceeding of decanting off
across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,
rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO,
most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses
somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor
is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long
some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some
head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst all
whale's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by
which, like a magician's glass, to each and every man in turn but
throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So be
to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. "The old man seems to read
zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I'll get the almanac and
Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter;
and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To
of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman--the old
down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his
a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or
clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem
to bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to
"The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.
began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
"Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly. "Well,
"How it was exactly," continued the one-armed commander, "I do not know;
alive, man--the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat--both
out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;--and that gentleman there will tell
The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the
gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but sober
boy, I'd rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man."
be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But
abstinence man; I never drink--"
even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; "this man's
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.
Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion, comes not
the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm
bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons--how many, their mother only
Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded
The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant
knew must be about whalers. The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I
"Fitz Swackhammer." But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and
spied the book, assured me that "Dan Coopman" did not mean "The Cooper,"
this beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were
we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks'
But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted
its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was
shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman's imagination?
How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me
flea, though many there be who have tried it.
for time began with man. Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I
all humane ages are over.
Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.
prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those
But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man,
of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and scowled with
cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that
firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.
the present human population of the globe.
The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel
vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it
Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other
the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the
abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no duplicate;
expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both useful and
The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,
cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as
manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early
Well, manmaker!
slippery world that can hold, man. What's Prometheus about there?--the
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
workmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well
something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never
It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once
the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was
pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his
than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,
not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation
"A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly
enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab."
thyself, old man."
all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the
fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing
Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes
was at once commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might
was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches
consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere
that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself. His firm lips
as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded
A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to
thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond
"Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
"I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
thyself, man. Here are my razors--the best of steel; here, and make the
"Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of If. But once
"Come aboard, come aboard!" cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting
Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe;
"Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
"But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
"Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man."
"Take another pledge, old man," said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live
glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God
As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live
while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered
to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine,
harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy
"But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
"Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own."
that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his
stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering
was Stubb. "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the
"The boat! the boat!" cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man!"
is against thee, old man; forbear! 'tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill
continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a
so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him
afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have
carries rods, and Ahab,--aye, man, and all of us,--were in no more
have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running
easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be
anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him. And what
from heaven should be so unmannerly! This is a nasty night, lad."
During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's
Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice
given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
In compliance with the standing order of his commander--to report
burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted
upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw
it--lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances,
old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom
man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to;
all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is
this old man's living power from his own living hands? Only a fool
Mary! Mary!--boy! boy! boy!--But if I wake thee not to death, old man,
Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
"East-sou-east, sir," said the frightened steersman.
the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, "I have it! It has happened
compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took
For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
him the things he had demanded, "my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's
and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the
happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene,
Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. "Take
The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
"'Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
"In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it's good. Here's a man
from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and
Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman. It drags
"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.
thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
perhaps he had ne'er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope;
gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. "One daft with
listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained
Yet the grey Manxman--the oldest mariner of all--declared that the wild
with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this
peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore;
with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he
And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won't put
the end. It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord!
what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of
I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told? But
"Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault."
Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He's always under
that fellow. Rat-tat! So man's seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
"Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the
in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
their own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall
Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
fidelity of man!--and a black! and crazy!--but methinks like-cures-like
against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's eyes,
conscious that the old man's despot eye was on them.
seemed to speak--one man to the other--unless at long intervals some
and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,--Ahab
the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp!"
children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least, of nearly
that,--within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.
to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the
strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
"Your hat, your hat, sir!" suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
But already the sable wing was before the old man's eyes; the long
"Then God keep thee, old man--see'st thou that"--pointing to the
transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look, and the robust and
man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson's
Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;
solitary command!--when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so
poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the
demon than a man!--aye, aye! what a forty years' fool--fool--old fool,
Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is
man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on board, on
commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep
living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in
do murderers go, man! Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged
That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man--as his wont at
Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go
"Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!--brace up!
who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover
seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of
impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
man's head.
"That's good.--Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!
from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone
reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his
troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face
"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did
man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and
ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of
to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing
killed, this gold is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise
At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders;
fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have
the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile
They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all
waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his
thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore.
those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling
the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that
The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more of
till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom
hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has
that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are
helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But
between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;
Starbuck. I am old;--shake hands with me, man."
brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!"
he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight,
wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly
sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with
the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's
Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again!
man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's
tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its
Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
End of Project Gutenberg's Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
